---
layout: page
title: Generating Educational Explanations using Assertion-Enhanced Few-Shot Learning
description: 
- Designed an effective prompting technique for Large Language Models (LLMs) to generate accurate explanations in problem-solving domains reducing hallucinations by 15% in an Intelligent Tutoring System when compared witrh traditional chain-of-thought prompting.
- Evaluated and compared the quality of educational explanations through survey data analysis from in-service middle school teachers.
img: assets/img/preprint_2024.svg
place: Research Project, IEC Lab, NCSU
timeline: July 2023 - Dec 2023
importance: 2
category: work
#giscus_comments: true
---
The work is currently in preprint <a href='https://scholar.google.com/citations?view_op=view_citation&hl=en&user=m9Yw7BoAAAAJ&citation_for_view=m9Yw7BoAAAAJ:2osOgNQ5qMEC'> Paper link</a>

In this project, we proposed a method to include conceptual knowledge, defined as assertions, in prompts for Large Language Models (LLMs), separate from few-shot demonstrations.

We conducted qualitative ablation studies to evaluate the effectiveness of this approach. Our findings revealed that including assertions as part of the few-shot demonstrations, or simply increasing the number of few-shots, resulted in poorer explanation quality. In contrast, separating assertions from few-shot demonstrations in the prompt led to higher-quality explanations.

Our proposed prompt reduced hallucinations by 15% compared to traditional chain-of-thought prompting and received significantly higher quality ratings, averaging 4 out of 5 across five metrics, from in-service middle school teachers in a survey.

---

<div class="row">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/preprint_2024_1.svg" title="example image" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/preprint_2024.svg" title="example image" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    The figure on the left shows explanation generated by traditional chain-of-thought prompting and the figure on the right shows our proposed assertions-enhanced chain-of-thought prompting.
</div>
<div class="row">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/preprint_2024_2.png" title="example image" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/preprint_2024_3.png" title="example image" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    Left figure shows the accuracy of generated explanations from pure few-shot demonstrations with chain-of-thought prompting vs Assertions-enhanced few-shot demonstrations with chain-of-thought prompting. 

    Right figure shows the ratings of generated explanations collected from the survey to the in-service middle school teachers accross five metrics.
</div>
